For this part of the symposium,
“Share ‘the Good News of Peace,’”
we’re going to discuss
the need to take the initiative.
Now, we’re going to look
at why we should take the initiative,
how to take the initiative,
and then a concluding thought
about who’s helping
in directing us in our preaching work.
Now, first of all, why take the initiative?
Well, think about it.
One thing about being Jehovah’s Witnesses
is that we’re never off duty.
We never stop being
one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
—wherever we are or whatever we’re doing.
So it isn’t just when we’re out
in the formal preaching work
with a congregation group
—we are one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
all the time.
There’s no such thing as being off duty
when we’re one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Now, to give you an idea of how
significant this is
with informal witnessing,
I will tell you a statistic:
A survey was taken some years ago
(and you’d be surprised, possibly),
and one group
of over 200 baptized Witnesses,
now notice, over 40 percent
had been contacted by informal witnessing.
Isn’t that amazing?
So the door-to-door work is crucial.
Of course, during COVID-19
that’s been inhibited
—letter writing has its place
and also phone witnessing.
But the point is, there are other times
when we can do some witnessing informally.
Now, let’s examine how to do it?
And the best example
of how to do informal witnessing
is, of course, Christ Jesus.
And there’s an account that all of us
are familiar with in the Bible book of John.
So please find John chapter 4,
and we’re going to take a look
at how Jesus took the initiative
and then imitate him
—do just as he did.
Now notice here in John chapter 4
(we get the context),
they’ve been traveling through Samaria.
And then verse 6, we’ll read:
“In fact, Jacob’s well was there.
“Now Jesus, tired out as he was
from the journey,
“was sitting at the well.
It was about the sixth hour.”
Now, that’s interesting, is it not?
Jesus was tired.
He was a perfect man, but human,
and his journey tired him out.
And he’s there
about noon sitting at the well.
And now notice what happens in verse 7:
“A woman of Samaria came to draw water.
Jesus said to her: ‘Give me a drink.’”
Real simple—“Give me a drink.”
Well, what do we learn from this?
As you noticed, Jesus was tired.
We get tired
because of being imperfect.
If a perfect man gets tired out,
certainly we get tired.
Sometimes you may feel:
‘Well, you know, maybe I could witness
‘to this person
—take the initiative.
But I just don’t feel like it.
I’m tired.’
Not with Jesus.
See, to imitate Jesus,
even in the case when you’re tired,
you’re thinking of others.
You want to take the opportunity
to start a conversation.
That’s the initial goal.
Now, notice something else here
that we learn in the 9th verse
of John chapter 4:
“So the Samaritan woman said to him:
“‘How is it that you, despite being a Jew,
ask me for a drink even though
I am a Samaritan woman?’”
And then we learn more here in parentheses:
“For Jews have no dealings
with the Samaritans.”
And it went both ways.
That’s the way prejudice was
—“no dealings”—
and on top of that, she’s a woman.
And women were not treated very nicely
during that period in man’s history.
So she’s a Samaritan, she’s a woman,
and Jesus asks her for a drink.
He starts a conversation with her.
Now, these are the things we learn from this:
He didn’t make any assumptions about her
and obviously knew that she was a woman
and a Samaritan traveling
through Samaria at that time.
And he didn’t refuse
to speak to her
because of that.
So the lesson for us is:
Don’t judge people by what you see,
based on their culture
or color of their skin.
This world is filled with judges.
We’re Jehovah’s Witnesses.
We don’t do that.
We leave the judging
to Jehovah and Jesus Christ.
And don’t judge
whether you think they’ll converse with you.
That’s wrong.
Jesus didn’t do that,
and he set the perfect example for us.
Go ahead, and if you’re
a little nervous about it,
then we beg Jehovah for his spirit to help us
and to give us the courage to witness
about his beautiful name and purposes.
Now, he also teaches us
something else interesting here.
And this is where in taking the initiative,
you start a conversation;
you don’t rush into things.
Now notice, we read verse 9,
and then they had
this conversation take place
through these following verses here.
We get to verse 24 where he mentions
that ‘God is a Spirit, and you
must worship him with spirit and truth.’
And now here’s what happens
after they had this fine conversation
and after he simply asked for a drink.
Notice verse 25:
“The woman said to him:
“‘I know that Messiah is coming,
who is called Christ.
Whenever that one comes,
he will declare all things to us openly.’”
She spoke out of her heart.
Now notice verse 26:
“Jesus said to her: ‘I am he,
the one speaking to you.’”
My, what a moment!
And she’s blessed
with having the Messiah himself speak to her.
However, give it some thought.
What if Jesus, rather than saying:
“Give me a drink,”
started off with saying:
‘I am the Messiah.
Give me a drink.’
Hmm, I don’t know.
Because Jesus had Jehovah’s spirit
and heavenly wisdom,
he entered the conversation first.
So that’s what we want
to keep in mind and try to do ourselves
—to have a conversation.
It might just be speaking from your heart
and trying to engage the person.
For example, you could be
in the doctor’s office waiting room.
So you speak from your heart,
and you notice the person is looking at you:
“Boy, I look forward to the day
when I’ll never be sick again.”
Well, they could look at you and think,
‘Well, this guy is crazy.’
Or they could say: “Well, that would be nice.
What makes you believe
that’s going to happen for you?”
Either way, you’re starting
to take the initiative
to start a conversation,
and leave the rest to Jehovah.
He’s the one
that gets the credit for the results.
Now, next, we have a video here.
Now, as you watch the following video,
notice how a sister
finds an effective way
to witness informally.
They seemed nice.
I knew what Yuri was thinking.
I wanted to start a conversation,
but I didn’t want to bother them either.
And when an opportunity came,
I just froze.
Then I was in a rush to give a witness.
It felt forced.
It helped to hear that we’d all been there.
Our past experiences were similar.
Whenever we didn’t put pressure on ourselves
and just looked for something in common
to talk about,
we could usually find a moment
when we could say something about the Bible.
She was curious why we were dressed up.
It turns out that she’d never talked
to Jehovah’s Witnesses before.
So we appreciated
how she took the initiative.
Of course, you see the contrast there
that at one point she froze.
So it is stressful—no doubt about it.
We’re only human.
But then she rushed
into things running after her with the tract.
See, give it some thought.
Try to have a conversation,
then let the spirit move it,
and that would be imitating Jesus.
Then this can move
to getting into the spiritual purpose
of initiating the conversation.
So a good example,
give it a try, brothers and sisters,
and let Jehovah bless your efforts.
Now, to conclude,
I want to share this beautiful thought
when it comes to this work we’re engaging in
and sharing “the good news of peace”
by taking the initiative.
Never forget this, and you know it,
but it’s a good reminder
—Revelation chapter 14.
And here in Revelation
(familiar to most of you listening),
and verse 6, let’s read it:
“And I saw another angel flying in midheaven,
“and he had everlasting good news to declare
“to those who dwell on the earth, to every
nation and tribe and tongue and people.”
Now, this is profound, obviously,
an “angel flying in midheaven.”
The footnote helps us;
it’s overhead
—where the birds fly.
You know, you see them.
See, another ‘angel in midheaven,’
that’s how close they are.
And this is something
you want to meditate on.
Personally, when I was in the traveling work,
sometimes I’d be working with one
of the brothers or one of the sisters,
and they had opposition
in some of the territories we’d work.
And I could tell they’re feeling the stress,
and I know it was because of the reaction
of some of these householders.
So, what I used to enjoy doing
(and they appreciated it
after they realized what I was doing),
we’d be walking along
and then I would just stop and I’d look up.
And I’d say, “Do you see him?”
And they’d say, “Who?”
“He’s right up there above the trees.”
And they’d look at me like,
‘Our circuit overseer has lost it.’
But I said, “See,”
and I would tell them
about Revelation 14:6.
When we’re in the preaching work,
whether it’s informal or formal door-to-door,
the angels are the real reapers.
At least one is nearby.
What a profound thought!
They are the real harvesters.
They are the ones directing us
to the “rightly disposed” people.
Don’t ever forget that.
When it comes to being ready
to share “the good news of peace,”
you go ahead and take the initiative
to start conversations.
You’ll have valuable opportunities
to share “the good news of peace.”
Now, Brother Gary Breaux,
a helper to the Service Committee,
will now present the next talk
of this symposium,
“Be Ready to Share ‘the Good News of Peace’
—Follow Up on Interest.”